pypy.md, before:

# Running with Pypy

## Python version concerns

At the time of writing, Pypy is still in Python 3.11, while CPython is in 3.13.

Due to the hard dependency on the specific AST structure, Pyde cannot use the 3.12+ FunctionDef type_params attribute for type annotations and run under Pypy.

Pyde can run with Pypy 3.11, but will stop supporting 3.11 as soon as Pypy updates to 3.12, in order to have access to more AST information.

## Dependencies

Pyde uses `pywebview` for its GUI, which depends on a native GUI library (GTK, Qt,...).

While these native dependencies are sorted automatically when pywebview is packaged by the distro, pywebview is usually only packaged for CPython.

To run pyde with pypy, you will need to build packages with pip, native library headers (GTK is used here) and pypy headers instead of CPython ones.

On Debian, you can run pyde with pypy using GTK using a virtual environment and these dependencies:
```sh
apt install pypy3-venv pypy3-dev libcairo2-dev libgirepository-2.0-dev
```

To prepare the environment:
```sh
pypy3 -m venv _venv
_venv/bin/pip install pycairo
_venv/bin/pip install git+https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/pygobject.git
_venv/bin/pip install pywebview
```

You can then run pyde with:
```sh
_venv/bin/pypy main.py
```

Commit message:

add a hello world test for manual pywebview installs

pypy.md, after:

# Running with Pypy

## Python version concerns

At the time of writing, Pypy is still in Python 3.11, while CPython is in 3.13.

Due to the hard dependency on the specific AST structure, Pyde cannot use the 3.12+ FunctionDef `type_params` attribute for type annotations and run under Pypy.

Pyde can run with Pypy 3.11, but will stop supporting 3.11 as soon as Pypy updates to 3.12, in order to have access to more AST information.

## Dependencies

Pyde uses `pywebview` for its GUI, which depends on a native GUI library (GTK, Qt,...).

While these native dependencies are sorted automatically when pywebview is packaged by the distro, pywebview is usually only packaged for CPython.

To run pyde with pypy, you will need to build packages with pip, native library headers (GTK is used here) and pypy headers instead of CPython ones.

On Debian, you can run pyde with pypy using GTK using a virtual environment and these dependencies:
```sh
apt install pypy3-venv pypy3-dev libcairo2-dev libgirepository-2.0-dev
```

To prepare the environment:
```sh
pypy3 -m venv _venv
_venv/bin/pip install pycairo
_venv/bin/pip install git+https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/pygobject.git
_venv/bin/pip install pywebview
```

You can check that pywebview is working by running `src/webview_test.py`:
```sh
_venv/bin/python src/webview_test.py
```
If pywebview is installed correctly, you should see the pywebview documentation open in a window.


You can then run pyde with:
```sh
_venv/bin/pypy src/main.py
```
